# Week 1 Day 2

## Agile:

**Problems with Waterfall**
 - Assume all requirments are know, nothing will change
 - Can takes several months or years
 - Requirement changes may signifigantly impact schedule and cost
 - Testing can uncover design or requirement errors that can be crippling

**Changes needed**
 - Needs to be more accepting of changes
 - Less risk, faster to realize ROI
 - Iterative development, design, develop, and deploy smaller units or features of the application
 - Testing is integrated in all aspects of the project

**What is Agile**
 - Agile describes an approach to soft dev under which requirements and solutions evolve through self organizing, cross functional teams and customers
 - Encourages rapid and flexible response to change
 - Set of values and principles, not specific practices

**Agile Manifesto**
 - Value more things on the left vs the right
 - Individuals and interactions over processess and tools
 - Working software over comprehensive docs
 - Customer collab over contract negotiation
 - Responding to change over following a plan

**12 Principles**
 - 1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
 - 2.Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for  the customer's competitive advantage
 - 3. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale
 - 4. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project
 - 5. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need and trust them to get the job done
 - 6. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation
 - 7. Working software is the primary measure of progress
 - 8. Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely
 - 9. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility
 - 10. Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential
 - 11. he best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams
 - 12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly

## Scrum Framework:

**What is SCRUM**
 - A framework intended to be adaptable to a teams needs
 - Iterative, focused on small deliverable

**Scrum Theory**
 - Transparency
 - Inspection
 - Adaption

**Scrum Values**
 - Commitment
 - Focus
 - Openness
 - Respect
 - Courage

**Roles of Scrum or Scrum Team**
 - ScrumMaster: A coach for the team, helps use the Scrum process to peform at the highestlevel. Facilitates meetings charged with removing roadblocks and addressing impediments
 - Product Owner: Representative of business or customer. Owns product backlog(collection of stories), grooms user stories by prioritizing and writing acceptance criteria.
 - Dev team: Creating a plan for the Sprint, and Sprint Backlog. Coders, testers, anyone working on user stories working to complete projects.
 - 1. Ad hoc members: Special skills sets from outside experts.
 - 2. Stakeholders: Anyone that has interest in development of the app. the attend sprint reviews

**Artifacts of Scrum**
 - Product Backlog
 - Sprint Backlog
 - Increment

**Product backlog items**
 - Epic: Big chunk of work that has one common objective. Placeholder for a required feature with a few lines of description
 - user Story: Captures a description of a software feature from the end users perspective. Type of user, what, and why
 - Task:

**User Stories**
 - Describes type of user, what they want and why. Formatted as: As a <role>, I want to <action>, so that <reason>

**Definition of Done**
 - Scrum team and stakeholders have an understanding of what it means to be complete(transparency)
 - ScrumMaster guides the dev team in knowing how many product backlog items can be selected during Sprint Planning
 - Dev team of the scrum team defines a definition of DOne that is appropriate
 - As Scrum teams mature, its expected that their definitions of Done will expand to include more stringent criteria

**Sprintint for success**
 - Sprints are the heartbeat of Scrum, where ideas are turned into value
 - Sprints only last for a specified period of time. 2,3 weeks or a month

**Sprint Goal**
 - An objective that will be met within the sprint through the implementation of Product backlog
 - Provides guidance to the dev team on why its building the increment

**Scrum Events**
 - Sprint Planning Meeting
 - 1. Select user stories from product backlog to commit for delivery during sprint
 - 2. committed scope of work, team members aligned to each user story/task
 - 3. ScrumMaster, product owner, dev team
 - Daily Stand Up/Scrum
 - 1. Each dev team member will status the team on what was completed prior, what will be done today, and call out impediments
 - 2. Impediments identified, ScrumMaster engaged when needed.
 - 3. ScrumMaster(optional), Dev team, Product owner(optional)
 - Sprint Review
 - 1. Demo what was produced during sprint by dev team and seek owner acceptance
 - 2. product owner decides which user stories are DONE, which return to backlog
 - 3. ScrumMaster,Product Owner, Dev Team, Stakeholders
 - Retrospective Meeting
 - 1. Analysis and inspection of the Sprint that has just ended.  it’s conducted after the Sprint is finished,
 - 2. Improved process through self-assessment and adjustments.
 - 3. ScrumMaster, Product Owner, Dev Team.

**Measuring Success**
 - Story Points enable a way for teams to estimate work effort levels. 1 point is 1-2 days, 2 is 3-5 days, 3 is 6-14 days.
 - ScrumMaster will guide team in setting and using Story Points.
 - Burndown Chart: Shows amount of work committed during the sprint, and tracks teams progress towards completion. Each day should be updated by team members.
 - Velocity: is the sum of story points completed over the one sprint
 - the average velocity is taken across multiple sprints, as seen in the diagram.

 