# Week 1 Day 5

## SQL and using MariaDb/mySql Continued:

**EXTRA FUNCTIONS**
 - SELECT
 - FROM
 - WHERE
 - ORDER BY
 - SUM
 - LIMIT
 - You can nickname tables by adding a variable to it (AS)

**DATA: Persistence and Longevity**
 - Data Integrity: Keeps things strict, using Primary keys, not allowing incorrect info entered, not showing names as null etc.
 - RDBMS: Front end and back end for accessing and archiving data, can use front end to help enforce data integrity, but the best place to enforce is back end.

**Integrity Constraints**
 - Entity Integrity
> - 1. requires that each row of a table representing a unique entity, can be identified. Enforced with primary keys
> - 2. When primary key constraint is defined for a table, the db ensures that it is present(NOT NULL) and unique
> - 3. MARIA DB supports AUTO_INCREMENT keyword
> - 4. Unique constraint resembles primary key - all values for this field must be unique, no dupes.
 - Domain Integrity
> - 1. Domain: a specified sphere of activity or knowledge
> - 2. first application of domain integrity is a field's data type
> - 3.
 - Referential Integrity
> - 1. Referential integrity is about enforcing the relationships between tables. Done with foreign key constraints
> - 2. the identifier(if present) must be unique in the database with Foreign key
> - 3. Foreign Keys define relationships between tables
> - 4. Foreign Keys constraints are enforced with DML statements(INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE). when a foreign key is INSERTED or UPDATED to a non NULL value, the db ensures the related primary key value actually exists. When the primary key with associated foreign keys is DELETED, the db takes action depending on how the foreign key was defined
> - 5. Deleting Primary Keys: cascade; set null; set default; no action;
 - User-defined Integrity
> - 1. Custom manner of defining constraints for field values
> - 2. CHECK constraint; boolean type usage
> - 3. To accommodate bulk operations of data, databases provide mechanisms for disabling constraints. Syntax differ greatly between vendors

> PRIMARY KEYS CONSTRAINTS: MUST BE UNIQUE, MUST NOT BE NULL

## NEW FUNCTIONS:

**JOIN SYNTAX**
 - FROM <left table> <join type(optional)> JOIN <right table> ON <join predicate(optional)>
 - Join Types
 - cross JOIN:
> - an unfiltered join, uses no predicate. output of a cross is a cartesian product, every possible combo of rows in the left and right tables
> - Example: SELECT 'Cross Join', e.ename, e.salary, d.dname
FROM employees AS e, departments AS d;
> - expensive, should not use
 - inner JOIN (Default JOIN if not specified):
> - rows from the left and right tables will appear in the output IF they both satisfy the join predicate
 - USING shortcut:
> - When the join predicate is based on equality between two fields with the same name, SQL gives this shortcut
 - natural JOIN:
> - 
 - LEFT(OUTER) JOIN:
> - All rows from the left table are guaranteed to be represented in the results, whether or not a row from the right table is found to satisfy the predicate.
> - when no matching row from the right table is found those fields will be NULL
 - RIGHT JOIN:
>  - All rows from the right table are guaranteed in results
>  - when no matching rows from the left table is found they will be null
 - FULL JOIN:
>  - combines both the effects of the left and right JOIN all rows from both left and right are gaurenteed in results, NULL for non matching rows
>  - MariaDB does not support this, but UNION is and achieves the same result.
 - SELF JOIN:
>  - Some tables define a foreign key to their own primary key. this also works when joining fields with WHERE example employee e JOIN employee m;
 - JOIN without JOIN
>  - this is theta style
>  - example: a.department id = b.department id

**SQL CLAUSE OPERATORS**
 - GROUP BY:
>  - groups a set of rows into a set of summary rows by values of columns or expressions
>  - often used with aggregate functions such as SUM,AVG,MAX,MIN, COUNT (without these it behaves like DISTINCT)
>  - Optional clause of SELECT STATEMENT.
>  - GROUP BY comes after FROM and WHERE, before HAVING, ORDER BY, LIMIT
>  - EXAMPLE SELECT status, COUNT(*) FROM orders GROUP BY status;

 - HAVING:
> - used in SELECT statement to specify filter conditions for a group of rows or aggregates
>  - Often used with GROUP BY to filter groups based on specific condition (without the GROUP BY clause, it behaves like WHERE)
>  - HAVING is after FROM WHERE SELECT AND GROUP BY, before ORDER BY and LIMIT
 - subqueries: 
>  - select country, avg(elevation)
> 	from station 
> 	group by country
> 	having avg(elevation) (
> 		select avg(elevation) from station
> 	) order by 2 desc;

 - LIKE:
>  - Used within a WHERE clause to search for a pattern in a column
>  - used in SELECT DELETE AND UPDATE
>  - % represents zero, one or multiple characters
>  - the <_wildcard matches any single character

 - BETWEEN:
>  - selects values within a given range. The values can be numbers, text, or dates.
>  - this is inclusive, begin and end values are included

 - Limit:
>  - Specifies a limit to display, example display only up to 5 names in a column
